In this example you can connect the various different Contexts together to form a network. The network will for a simple composition, and each different configuration of the network will sound different. You can also open and close the toggles at the bottom of each Context to change it's pattern and melody.;

To start any Context, simply double click on it.;

To make or destroy connections, you must be in edit mode. To enter edit mode, use the Edit menu, or press Ctrl+e. Once you see the hand cursor, you can make connections by clicking on an outlet box from one Context and draggin it to the inlet of another. The inlets are always at the top and the outlets are always at the bottom. This can be a bit tricky at first, but it's easy once you get used to it.;

The inlets (the tiny boxes at the top of each object) will start a Context, whenever a "bang" message is received. All inlets are the same, so it doesn't make any difference which inlet receives the message.;

The outlets (tiny boxes at the bottom) are synched with the sequencer, so each outlet will send a "bang" when it's the right time, indicated by the cursor that moves across the screen. Each outlet corresponds to one toggle check-box (unfortunately, they don't quite line up). You can use the toggle to turn the outlet on or off.;

Each toggle check-box has a corresponding send message. These are seen in the text box at the top of each Context. You can edit them by clicking and typing. Hold the mouse over a particular Context and use the arrow keys to scroll between the different messages.;

The # symbol in each send message converts numbers into notes on a scale. It is communicating with the [scaler] object in the same patch. You can change the mode, key and octave of the scale in the [scaler] arguments. In this case, "# 7" would mean "the 7th note on the 6th octave of the D flat blues major scale";

The toggle in the bottom right corner fires at the very end of the time cycle. This is different from the last beat of the bar / pattern, which comes right before it. They are not assigned any notes here, but they can still be opened and used to trigger another Context. Doing this would help to make the composition's timing more coherent.;

No! As a sequencing tool, Context doesn't sound like anything. Context sends messages to other PD patches to tell them to do things. Here the sound is a simple sine wave synth, generated within the patch called [glock~].;

Yes! That's what the number boxes in the top left corner are for. They measure seconds, so you can change the timing accordingly.;

This is called the "burst". These toggles all fire together at the end of the Context cycle. Herer the burst is being used to generate chords, but it can also be used like a logic gate to make decisions.;

The burst can fire one, some or all open toggles at the end of the cycle. (You can control how these toggles are chosen in the properties menu, but we won't go into detail here.);

Unfortunately, there are no outlets for the burst toggles. You can still connect them into the network using "float connect" and "x-y mode". See the help documents for details about this.;

The notes are being received by the object called "receive ex1-". This corresponds to the name on each Context canvas, "ex1". Different Contexts can have different names, but here they are the same so they are all going to the same place.;

